This week we are going to talk about nouns and pronouns, and help you to avoid the problems
caused by not understanding how they function in writing.
A noun is a word that names something: a person, a place, a thing, a quality, an act, or an
idea.
Nouns can be either singular or plural
For most nouns, the plural is formed by adding S or ES to the singular:
book becomes books and boss becomes bosses.
If there is a vowel before the Y at the end of a noun, simply add S.
If there is a consonant before the Y at the end of a noun, replace the Y with an I and
add ES.
Some nouns have irregular plurals: child/children, mouse/mice
Other nouns have no singular: auspices, clothes, cattle.
And then there are those nouns that have no plural: training, furniture, milk.
Often in English we'll come across a noun that has kept its Latin-based plural, like
criterion/criteria, phenomenon/phenomena.
And sometimes we'll find nouns that have BOTH English and Latin plurals (so index in
plural can become either indexes or indices).
It's always wise to check your context when deciding which to use.
You'll discover that some nouns are plural in form, but singular in meaning and therefore
take a singular verb. It would good to note that a word like 'statistics' can also
be plural as in the statistics are convincing, but statistics is difficult to master.
Again, we rely on context to convey meaning.
When it comes to measurements and figures
Forty percent of eligible voters ARE expected to turn out.
BUT Forty percent IS considered a good turnout.
Some nouns are count nouns-nine items or fewer or seven little Australians.
And just as there are count nouns, there are noncount nouns as well, that is, nouns that
cannot be counted-wisdom, underwear, atmosphere.
And then there are those tricky nouns that can be both count and noncount.
Take the example of 'room'-we may use it to say there is 'no room at the table'
and also that there are 'no rooms at the inn'.
Collective nouns are used for references to gatherings of entities (people, animals, plants
and so on).
They can be singular or plural, depending on your intended meaning, for example 'the
group were divided on that issue' BUT 'the group was unanimous on that issue'.
The word 'number' is a collective noun that can be singular or plural-a number
of students are already here (plural). The number of students who are here is impressive
(singular).
Nouns can be concrete or abstract.
Concrete nouns can be seen, touched, smelt, or tasted because they refer to tangible items
such as books, chairs, or food.
Abstract nouns cannot be detected by the senses because they name ideas, concepts, generalities,
qualities, notions and trends-eg. pleasure, beauty, wisdom, justice.
Nouns can also be either common or proper.
A common noun is a non-specific item such as house, book or violin, but a proper noun
names a specific thing such as a person, a location, a building, an event, et cetera.
Proper nouns always take a capital letter.
'Captain Pugwash is a fearless captain' shows 'captain' as both a common and proper
noun.
Now let's move on to noun cases. The case is the form of a noun (or pronoun) that shows
the reader how the noun (or pronoun) functions in a sentence.
Nouns can function as a subject, an object, a complement, and an appositive. The appositive
is usually a noun that renames another noun nearby.
Take this example: Sherlock Holmes, the detective, tapped his pipe. He felt a sense of foreboding.
In this instance, 'Sherlock Holmes'
is the subject of our sentence (and is a proper noun). 'The detective' is in apposition
as it is close by and renames 'Sherlock Holmes'. 'Pipe' is the object.
In the next sentence, 'sense' is the complement as it arrives
after a linking verb, and 'foreboding' is the object after the preposition 'of'.
The cases of nouns only ever change when they are in the possessive: the book's cover or
the books' authors.
There are two common problems to watch out for in noun usage: noun strings and nominalisations
(or heavy nouns).
A noun string occurs when too many nouns are bunched together, making it hard for the reader
to discern their meaning in the sentence.
The best remedy is to un-string the nouns to make it easier for the reader to process
them.
So, instead of saying 'an uncertainty management system', you would rephrase it to read
'a system for managing uncertainty'.
Similarly, a 'disaster victim identification specialist' would be better phrased as
'an identification specialist for disaster victims'.
A nominalisation is a noun derived from a verb or an adjective.
These 'heavy nouns' are sometimes called 'shun' words because they commonly end
in 'tion'. SHUN.
There are several other endings to be wary of
such as 'age', 'al', 'ance', 'ence', and many more.
More often than not, the 'heavy' noun can be replaced by a verb.
Others require a bit more lexical dexterity to avoid awkward nominalisations.
Do you remember the sentence that exemplified of-ness at the end of week 2?
Our lack OF knowledge about local conditions precluded determination OF committee action
effectiveness in fund allocation to those areas in greatest need OF assistance.
It is riddled with nominalisations. See whether you can replace some of the italicised words.
But, take note, not all words ending in 'tion' are nominalisations that you need to delete.
Here's a sample of some nominalisations with suggested replacements.
Where you can, it is best to avoid using words in the 'noun' column, as it is usually
more appropriate to use the verb. That's it for nouns. Let's move onto pronouns with Amber.