Or, perhaps, Sherlock Holmes waited. 
Also, check whether what you think is a passive verb can be converted straight forwardly into the active voice.
We now move on to the small, but mighty, pronoun.
So, a pronoun stands in place of a noun, a noun phrase, or a name.
The concept of person applies to things as well.
The remedy is simple: Change 'that' to 'who'.
Again, these include 'myself', 'yourself', 'himself', 'herself', 'itself', 'ourselves', 'yourselves', and 'themselves'.
And, finally, the expletive pronouns: 'It' and 'there'. In grammar, the word expletive does not mean an oath or a swear word.
Sometimes, you need to use an expletive construction.
But, deploy it with care, especially in academic and technical writing.
Welcome back. 
As you can see, 'more' denotes a comparative degree, and 'most' denotes a superlative.
Greetings. 
Sometimes, you may want to use several adjectives in a sequence to describe the one thing.
However, multiple adjectives in a sequence conform to a specific order.
Sometimes, a word might come first for emphasis, as in 'I want the silver antique tea pot, not the pewter one'. 
Hello, everyone.
Also, never put a comma after a determiner, or before the noun being described.
Similarly, there is no comma after the determiner or before the noun in 'the great white whale'.
However, in the phrase 'the long, rectangular wooden box' there is a comma between 'long' and 'rectangular', because they are both of the same category: That of 'shape'.
You should also use a comma if 'and' could be placed between the words, and if the words could be reversed and still retain your intended meaning.
Finally, 'The Monty Python comedy school', which would otherwise take a hyphen, does not because 'Monty Python' is a proper noun.
But, if the response is 'we ate several', then 'several' functions as a pronoun.
Next week, we'll move on to adverbs.
Similarly, to say 'I spent yesterday reading, writing, and drawing, so I need to catch up on my housework today', 'so' works to join the two clauses, and in 'we can have pizza, or we can have leftover lentil soup for dinner', 'or' works as the conjunction.
Here's a table of some subordinating conjunctions.
And, in 'this is as good as it gets' the 'as-as' conjunction establishes a comparative relationship.
'They hoped for good weather; however, it rained cats and dogs.'
Next week, we move on to prepositions and paragraphs.
So, grammar has origins that are glamorous and magical.
It's quite usual for people to speak and write correctly without knowing the explicit rules of grammar.
So, when you're studying grammar, you're studying what you may already know. 
Categorising and labelling the words in a sentence using the parts of speech as traditional grammarians do isn't always reliable, however.
You already have a good intuitive sense of grammar, but you need to be able to pinpoint what makes a piece of writing work or not work.
Sometimes we're told that this sort of thing doesn't matter very much.
So far, we have discussed the importance of standard English and introduced you to your first writing assignment.
Good grammar and coherent sentence structure are the foundation of effective writing, but you also need to choose words well.
We need now to cover some important concepts related to word usage, such as voice, tone, and style.
Next week, we'll move up a level to sentences, which will be covered by Amber and Catherine.
Also, that Latin prepositions are always placed before the noun, so can never appear at the end of a Latin sentence.
However the good goblin apparently noticed me in the crowd, GOSH!
Whereas STRUCTURE-CLASS words (sometimes called closed, grammatical, or function words) contribute grammatical-structural meaning to the text.
Sometimes the subject role is implied or 'understood': Do your homework.
However, 'That is the question' is a complete sentence because 'is' is a finite verb.
Yet another way to categorise sentences is into loose and periodic forms.
Finally, verbs can indicate whether the subject of a sentence is acting or being acted upon.
Not to be confused with verb phrases, which we have just looked at, phrasal verbs, or prepositional verbs, as they are sometimes known, are very different.
Again, we rely on context to convey meaning.
And just as there are count nouns, there are noncount nouns as well, that is, nouns that cannot be counted-wisdom, underwear, atmosphere.

