A preposition is a word that establishes a relationship, usually with the word following it.
There are more than one hundred prepositions in English. A prepositional phrase is a phrase
that begins with a preposition and is followed by a noun or pronoun.
Such phrases function as either adjectives (modifying nouns) or as adverbs
 (modifying verbs, adjectives, or other adverbs).
Prepositions establish relationships of time, place, exception, addition, comparison or contrast,
cause or effect, concession, condition, opposition, possession, movement.
Prepositions of time can be 'on', 'at', 'in', 'during', or 'for'.
We use 'on' for specific days or dates,
as in the sentence 'my birthday is on Wednesday'.
'At' is used for specific times: 'I have work at 9:30'.
We use 'in' to relate non-specific times, such as 'my mother was born in 1946'.
And finally, we use 'for' to describe a continuous duration, as in the sentence
'I studied for eighteen years'.
Prepositions of place can also be 'on', 'at', or 'in'.
The preposition 'at' is used for specific addresses, such as
'I live at number one, Silk Street, London'.
'On' is used for names of streets, roads, et cetera,
as in 'I live on Silk Street'.
But we use 'in' to designate general areas, such as suburbs, towns, and countries,
as in the sentence 'I live in London'.
As you can see, the relationship of a preposition depends upon its context in a sentence.
Prepositions of movement include the words 'to', 'toward', or 'towards',
such as in the sentences 'I went to the castle gates' and 'don't walk towards the light'.
Sometimes we don't need to use prepositions to indicate movement.
For example, in the sentence 'my sister went outside', the preposition 'outside' functions as an adverb.
Prepositions often connect to nouns, adjectives, and verbs.
Consider the sentence 'we found plenty of errors'. Here, the noun 'plenty'
connects with the preposition 'of' and another noun, 'errors', to form a prepositional phrase.
In 'I have no stomach for horror films', the noun ‘stomach' connects with the preposition 'for'
and the compound noun 'horror films'.
In 'Sally is married to a wonderful partner', the adjective 'married' combines with
the preposition 'to'. Likewise, 'afraid' and ‘of' are combined in the sentence
'I am afraid of the goblins'.
Now consider the sentences 'Heidi ran up a big hill' and 'Heidi ran up a big bill'.
In the first sentence, 'ran' is a verb that connects to 'up', a preposition.
'Ran' agrees with the subject 'Heidi', while 'hill' is the object of 'up'. 
However, in the second sentence, 'ran up' is a phrasal verb agreeing with the subject 'Heidi'.
We covered phrasal verbs in week three.
Remember that they are two- or three-word verbs that incorporate a main verb and a preposition.
When two words or phrases require the same preposition, that preposition doesn't have
to be repeated. This is called parallelism. For example, the sentence
'I'm repulsed by and intrigued by that' could be simply 'I'm repulsed and intrigued by that',
because both 'repulsed' and 'intrigued' require the same preposition in 'by'.
Similarly, to say 'in Brisbane, you can wear t-shirts in summer or in winter',
could just as well read 'in Brisbane, you can wear t-shirts in summer or winter'.
Deciding which preposition to omit depends on whether it comes before or after its corresponding object.
When words or phrases require different prepositions, you cannot omit either.
Take these examples: 'It is wise to listen to and learn from your lecturer',
and 'would you like to swim in the pool or at the beach?'
None of these prepositions can be omitted as we neither 'listen from' our lecturer,
nor 'swim in' the beach.
There can be idiomatic differences in the way that prepositions are used.
Take, for example, the word 'knack', meaning the skill or ability to do something easily and well.
You could have a knack 'for' remembering faces, a knack 'of' making people comfortable,
or a knack 'to' using a corkscrew.
In each case, the preposition changes.
You must always be sure to use the correct preposition. Here are two examples of real-world
publications that failed to do so. 'Vogue Living' magazine once printed:
'American sculptor Nick Cave, not to be mistaken with our local rock star…'
where it should have read 'mistaken for'. 
Similarly, Brisbane City Council Customer Service posted this notice:
'the current offer applies for free travel on QR and Brisbane Buses',
where they should have said 'applies to'.
Mistakes like these discredit the authority that your writing might otherwise command.
You might have heard the 'rule' that you should never end a sentence with a preposition.
Of this, Winston Churchill allegedly said:
'This is the type of arrant pedantry up with which I will not put'.
He was apparently responding to someone who was unaware that this is a 'zombie rule'.
Ben Yagoda included the following example in his book that we listed in week one:
'What did you want to bring the book I didn't want to be read to out of up for?'
Yagoda credits the sentence as coming out of Australia.
Can you see how much fun it would have been to compose this sentence?
How many prepositions does it end with?
On a final note, let's have a look at another example.
Constance Hale, the author of 'Sin and Syntax: How to Craft Wickedly Effective Prose',
writes that 'nobody knows prepositional ins and outs like professor Morris Bishop'.
He penned this little poem in 1947 called 'The Naughty Preposition': 
I lately lost a preposition; It hid, I thought, beneath my chair And angrily I cried 'Perdition! Up from out of in under there.'
Correctness is my vade macum, And straggling phrases I abhor. And yet I wondered, What should he come Up from out of in under for?'
How many prepositions could you find in that poem?
That's it for prepositions. Next week is our last for this course.
 In it, Ros will cover punctuation.