If you are at university or school, you know how important writing is to your academic
progress. Once you graduate you'll learn that the
workplace requires Standard English, the language of prestige and power in much
of the world. We acknowledge the tremendous pressure that
many of the students enrolled in this MOOC are under to write as well as those whose
first language is English.
It is clear that English is the world's lingua franca. It is used all over the planet.
You need to use Standard English in academic, corporate, and government communication.
Many employers react strongly against non-standard English because they believe that errors inspire
undesirable reactions in readers and erode the credibility of the organisation.
You'll exponentially enhance your employment prospects if you write well.
English has no protector of language such as the 400-year-old body of revered experts
who protect the French language.
Standard English is the set of standards that professional experts have agreed upon,
while acknowledging how language constantly changes.
The rules for Standard English are defined by how educated people use it.
There are two tribes of grammarians.
That are known as descriptivists and prescriptivists. Descriptivists describe how language is used
and how it changes. Prescriptivists prescribe how language ought
to be used.
Professor Geoffrey Pullum, a world authority on grammar as the co-author of The Cambridge
Grammar of the English Language, who blogs regularly on Lingua Franca on The
Chronicle of Higher Education site, resists this dichotomy. He says that grammarians
who study the language are not all 'bow-tie-wearing martinets',
nor are they 'flaming liberals' who think that everything should be allowed, that 'anything
goes'.
He stands on the sensible middle ground, where the rules of Standard English are based on
the way that expert native speakers use the language.
And so do we. In this MOOC, we aim to give you good grammatical guidance because,
in any formal written context, only standard English is regarded as acceptable and correct.
Language scholars have argued that humans find meaning in the world by exploring it
through their own language. When people write about something, they understand
and learn it better; it's called the writing-thinking-learning connection and you should exploit it.
Many creative writers testify that they don't know what they're thinking until they start
writing about it. This is what the novelist E. M. Forster had
to say: 'How do I know what I think until I've seen what I've said?'
Many professionals keep a writing journal. In her Christmas Day message in 2013, even
Queen Elizabeth of England advocated keeping a journal.
Keeping a journal is valuable for you as student writers, because it will enhance your writing-thinking-learning
processes. We'd like you to create and maintain a writing
journal that will allow you to practise writing, to experiment with different styles,
and to develop a sourcebook of materials from which you can extract material to share with
others as blog posts for your writing assignments.
A double-entry journal, that is, a journal in which you reflect upon what you have written
previously, is particularly valuable.
We'd like you to keep a journal as you progress through this MOOC and you may well keep it
going after the MOOC has finished.
For week 2, we want you to think about your writing process and prepare a 300-word blog
post to submit for your first writing assignment. In what ways is writing like running or cooking
or dancing or boxing or painting or any other activity that you can think of?
Jot down some points, then write a few sentences describing your process.
Haruki Murakami has written about writing and running. Neil Gaiman has written about
how writing is like cooking. You might like to Google them to see what
they have to say. Ferris Jarbr has a wonderful essay in the
New Yorker about why walking helps us think.
In an essay 'Cooking Dumb, Eating Dumb', Nahum Waxman, who has a fabulous cookbook
shop on the Upper East side of Manhattan called Kitchen Arts and Letters,
says that he dreads being asked by his customers if the recipes in a book 'work'.
He tells them that it is they who must work. He says that his customers
'must think, must apply their intelligence and judgment to ideas and to the materials
that will be turned into a dish'. He could well be talking about writing when
he goes on to say that 'they need to bring their own good sense
to cooking - their ability to understand variability in ingredients,
to recognise error in a written text, to acknowledge their own tastes and preferences,
to not let themselves be intimidated by the food arbiters into dreary cooking-by-numbers'.
An alternative blog post could describe your response to something that you learn in week
1 of this MOOC that made you change your way of thinking-writing-learning.
If you watch Professor D'Agostino's video presentation,
you might like to comment on what you have learnt from his powerfully evocative talk.
Fans of Bob Dylan will particularly love it.
We'll also ask you to contribute a blog post in weeks 4, 6, & 8.
The final one in week 8 will reflect on your earlier posts, and this is where your double-entry
journal could come in handy.
Here are the criteria to aim for when writing blog posts and for judging the quality of
other students' blog posts: Content that's interesting, engaging, and
appropriate for readers. Be aware of cultural differences.
Be careful about using humour because it may offend readers who don't share your sense
of humour. Content that speculates, poses problems, raises questions,
challenges, informs, and that's based on research that's authentic, credible,
and authoritative. Structure that's logical, coherent, cohesive,
and focused. Style that's energetic, compelling, and
concise. And of course, correct grammar and punctuation.
As guidance, we have posted in our course
resources a couple of exemplars of blog posts written by students in the on-campus Grammar
class here at The University of Queensland. We'll also choose a few early posts that
students in this MOOC write and post. We'll comment on and grade them as guidance
for self and peer assessing and post these mark-ups on the discussion board as soon as
possible after the posts are due.
You'll find all of the assessment details, including details of the rubric, in your course
assessment folder.
So far, we have discussed the importance of standard English and introduced you to your
first writing assignment. Now we'll move on to show you how to create
credibility for your writing at the word level.