Welcome to the second lecture on punctuation.
The exclamation mark should rarely be used in formal writing.
However, it is useful in dialogue, and does have a place in informal communication for interjections.
'Get out of here!' and 'Surprise!' are examples of exclamation.
When it comes to question marks, you must make sure that they always follow a question.
For example: 'Would you please bake me a cake' is a request.
However, 'Can you bake cakes?' is a question.
'Julia asked why Gertrude Stein had such a strange attitude to punctuation'
is a statement, not a question.
The apostrophe is used to form contractions and to form the possessive case.
Never use an apostrophe to form a plural-
this is called the greengrocer's plural, because it's very common to see misspelled words such as 'tomato's'-
and never use one in possessive pronouns such as 'ours' or 'yours'.
Consider this first example. 'Your', spelt 'y-o-u-r', is a possessive pronoun, used in 'your house'.
'You're'-'y-o-u-'-r-e'-is the contracted form of the phrase 'you are'.
Note the different spellings of 'there', 'they're', and 'their'.
The phrase 'Exploiting the situation for all its worth' means to exploit the situation
for all the worth of it, as 'its' is in the possessive case.
'Exploiting the situation for all it's worth' (with an apostrophe) means to exploit the
situation for all that it is worth.
When making singular words possessive, add 'apostrophe-s', as in 'the book's cover'-
meaning the cover of the book.
When making plural words possessive, add 'apostrophe-s' if they don't end in 's',
such as in 'the children's books'-the books of the children.
If the plural already ends in 's', as most plurals do, then add an apostrophe only, as in
'The soldiers' uniforms'-the uniforms of the soldiers.
The hyphen is used in compound expressions, and when a word is divided at the end of a line of text.
For instance, the phrase 'A man eating crocodile' means a man who is eating some crocodile.
However, in 'A man-eating crocodile', where 'man' and 'eating' form a compound,
you now have a crocodile that eats people.
The sentence 'There were 50-odd students at the lecture'
means that there were about 50 students at the lecture.
Without the hyphen, the meaning is quite different, and could be rather insulting to the students.
In written documents, use single quotation marks for parts of a whole text
and italics for the whole text.
For example, short poems, songs, articles, chapters, and episodes of a TV series
are parts of a larger whole, and so use quotation marks.
However, books, newspapers, and TV series are whole texts, and so should be written in italics.
Martin Amis's 'The Zone of Interest' would be written with the title in italics.
To refer to chapter two of the novel, 'To Business', I would put the name of the chapter in quotation marks.
When using quotation marks to indicate dialogue, punctuate as logically as possible.
For example, in the sentence '"Is he still there?", asked Jane', the question mark goes inside
the quotation marks, because it applies to the question that Jane asks.
However, in 'He said: "No, I don't think so".', the full stop is outside the quotation marks,
because it ends the entire sentence, not just the dialogue.
When using quotation marks within a quotation or piece of dialogue, use double quotation marks
such as in the sentence-'James said "yes"', she replied'.
I have posted a note in the course resources for this week that discusses the movement
towards logical punctuation, which places the period on the outside.
This has been common in Australia and the UK, but is now becoming more acceptable in
the USA-by Conan O'Brien, for one.
The slash is used to indicate a choice between words, and normally takes the place of the word 'or'.
For example, 'The Oxford/Harvard/serial comma'.
Slashes can also be used to indicate a break in a line of poetry, as in
'I wandered lonely as a cloud / that floats on high o'er vales and hills'.
The ellipsis is used to indicate an omission.
For example, when removing a sentence from a quote, an ellipsis takes the place of that sentence, 
as in: 'Barnaby wrote: "We have nothing to do with this . . . I am completely free of blame"'.
In prose, an ellipsis indicates a pause, such as in the sentence: 'He wasn't . . . was he?'
It can also indicate a trailing off, such as in: 'I was going to . . . never mind'.
Here are some final reminders for using punctuation effectively.
Aim to punctuate for 'structure' to reveal, 'meaning' to clarify, and 'pace' to control.
Study sentences in well-punctuated prose to learn the particular marks, and familiarise
yourself with how they should be used. As Adorno says:
 'Punctuation marks are the stitches that hold the quilt of language together'.
Construct your own set of guidelines for punctuation.
Remember, punctuation should be there quietly doing its job, and be visible only
to those who are looking for it. Make sure that every punctuation mark you use conveys
a signal to your reader to slow down, to stop, et cetera.
There are many ways to punctuate writing, and many different rules and options.
You must make certain that you are knowledgeable and consistent in your use of punctuation.
See how you go with the exercise below.