Traditional grammar is the grammar that was taught for around 2,000 years - though, as
Professor David Crystal reports in the video in our course resources, for a few decades
from the 1960s up until the 1990s, grammar was absent in most writing classrooms.
Traditional grammar prescribes rules and follows what some people call the 'Doctrine of Mechanical
Correctness.' While we acknowledge the importance of presenting mechanically flawless writing
in academic and professional contexts, we accept that language practices change constantly.
We certainly don't follow the Latin-based, old-fashioned advice that forbids splitting
an infinitive verb 'to boldly go' or, ending a sentence with a preposition ('I have nobody
to go with'). These rules were based on the fact that all
Latin infinitives are expressed as one word. Also, that Latin prepositions are always placed
before the noun, so can never appear at the end of a Latin sentence.
There are lots of other rules such as not starting a sentence with 'and', or 'but',
or 'because' that you might remember from school, but these are what some grammarians
call 'bogus' or 'zombie' rules. See Learn More, where two recent articles list
these rules and tell you when it's OK to break them.
Traditional grammar was based on nine parts of speech:
First of all the noun, which is a naming word, then we have the pronoun which is a noun substitute.
A verb which is a doing or being word, an adjective that describes nouns or pronouns.
An adverb which describes adjectives, verbs or other adverbs. An article, which specifies
definiteness or indefiniteness of a noun. A conjunction which is a joining word. A preposition,
which is a word that positions. An interjection which conveys emotion or sentiment.
Here's a sentence that uses all the parts of speech in their traditional function, that
is, doing their usual job.
However the good goblin apparently noticed me in the crowd, GOSH!
Take the word 'face', for example. In a sentence like 'that's such a happy face',
where the word 'face' names something,'face' works as a noun.
But, in the sentence 'I can't face that mountain of work', the word 'face' is
functioning to describe an action, and therefore part of a verb phrase.
You can see from these simple examples that we can't categorically identify a word as
a particular part of speech until we see it in action in a sentence. Many words can multitask,
doing different jobs in different sentences.
The function of a word in a sentence-that is, its role and its relationship to other
words-always determines its part of speech in that sentence. The linguists I mentioned
earlier examined the way words work in sentences and divided their roles or functions into
two groups: form-class words and structure-class words.
The FORM-CLASS words (sometimes called open or lexical words) contribute content-meaning
to the text and comprise the central subject matter in dictionaries.
Whereas STRUCTURE-CLASS words (sometimes called closed, grammatical, or function words) contribute
grammatical-structural meaning to the text. That is, they signal the relationships between
words in a sentence and function to make a text cohesive. They work rather like mortar
to connect the bricks of the form-class words to each other.
There's a table listing the parts of speech in these two categories in the course resources
section for those of you who are also learning linguistics.
We'll cover all of these as we move through the course. Let's now move on to the sentence.