The key sentence problems that you need to avoid are the sentence fragment, the fused
or run-on sentence, and the comma splice.
A sentence that lacks a subject or a finite verb is a fragment.
A fragment can be a dependent clause, a subject without a predicate, a phrase, or even a single
word.
The following are all fragments, which are undesirable in formal writing:
While Sherlock waited. The detective Sherlock Holmes.
With his fingertips together. Sherlock.
The fused (or run-on) sentence.
Can you see that two sentences are fused here?
The Comma Splice
Can you see that a comma is used to join or splice two sentences?
Remember, commas don't join; they cut!
A way to correct these sentences would be to write:
Sherlock Holmes waited and Watson delayed his visit.
Or, perhaps, Sherlock Holmes waited. Watson delayed his visit.
You should avoid the problems just listed and try to write direct, dynamic sentences.
You should also learn to sidestep the following problems: 'and-ness', 'is-ness', 'of-ness',
and list-like sentences.
Avoid 'and-ness'-constructing long sentences by stringing too many clauses together with
'and'.
For example: Proposals are to be submitted in duplicate,
and enclosed in a sealed envelope, and endorsed with a reference number, and shall be lodged
at the address below.
Could you rewrite this sentence by eliminating the 'and's'? You'll have a chance
later to look more closely at this sentence and have a go at rewriting it more effectively.
Avoid listlike sentences:
For example: The thing about a sentence with a listlike
form is that there are a number of tiny points with independent bits of meaning that are
set out in the sentence in a line so that the series of words and phrases reads like
so many pieces of popcorn strung out on a string. [from Linda Flower's Problem-solving
Strategies for Writing].
I don't know about you, but I thought that sentence was never going to end! Could you
do better?
Avoid 'is-ness'-relying on parts of the 'weak' verb 'to be'
For example:
The intention of the tax office is to audit their records.
Or, how about some Shakespeare?
This tyrant, whose sole name is a blister on our tongues, was once thought honest.
What verbs could replace 'is' to make these sentences stronger?
We'll look at the tense of verbs next week, but the following table will help you to see
the parts of the verb 'to be' in present and past tense.
Avoid 'OF-ness'-this occurs when the word 'of' is used too frequently.
For example: Our lack OF knowledge about local conditions
precluded determination OF committee action effectiveness in fund allocation to those
areas in greatest need OF assistance.
When you've finished watching this video, have a go at rewriting our example sentences
using the text boxes provided.
This week we have looked at the form and function of sentences, the problems related to sentence
structure and ways to make your sentences coherent and compelling by avoiding sentence-level
problems. Next week,we'll look at verbs, the part of speech that Karen Elizabeth Gordon,
who wrote the transitive vampire grammar books, calls 'the heartthrob' of the sentence.