We certainly don't follow the Latin-based, old-fashioned advice that forbids splitting an infinitive verb 'to boldly go' or, ending a sentence with a preposition ('I have nobody to go with').
Here's a sentence that uses all the parts of speech in their traditional function, that is, doing their usual job.
There's a table listing the parts of speech in these two categories in the course resources section for those of you who are also learning linguistics.
To conclude this section, here's a table to introduce subjects, predicates, and objects, which we'll cover next week when we look at verbs.
I don't know about you, but I thought that sentence was never going to end!
When you've finished watching this video, have a go at rewriting our example sentences using the text boxes provided.
Intransitive verbs don't require an object to complete their meaning.
In fact, he's called us in a few times to take care of details that were overlooked in the last weeks of work.
It's always wise to check your context when deciding which to use.
Here's a sample of some nominalisations with suggested replacements.
Here's a quote from a Colin Dexter novel, where reflexive pronouns do some heavy lifting.
No, I don't mean utterly, but kill most of them-then the rest will be valuable.
That's it for adjectives.
To put it another way, they're like dandelions.
Here's a table of some subordinating conjunctions.
There are quite a few here, and many more that aren't listed.
Now we're going to talk about Adverbs.
That's it for adverbs and conjunctions.
Sometimes we don't need to use prepositions to indicate movement.
On a final note, let's have a look at another example.
That's it for prepositions.
Now we're going to look at paragraphs, and some of the ways that you can make your writing better by understanding how they work.
They'll see what you are saying as they read.
It's helpful to give information first in broad terms, and to become more specific and offer greater detail as you move through the paragraph.
In this last week of the course, I'll cover all the 'extant' punctuation marks-that is, those that we still use-and point you to some course resources that describe 'extinct' punctuation marks, along with punctuation marks that some people would love to see come into regular use.
Writing isn't merely written down speaking.
When we're apart, I can be forever happy.
They're placed after an introductory sentence element.
He says that it's commonly used by other publishers in the UK and forms a routine part of style in US and Canadian English.
Unfortunately, Stephen King doesn't seem to know what it is.
There's no call for the Oxford comma in his second sentence, because there is no series.
Don't put a comma between a subject and a verb unless you insert other words.
Here's Stephen King again, in his wonderful book 'On Writing'.
I hope he doesn't mind that I have substituted a semicolon for the comma in his original sentence.
If they're in the middle of a sentence, then the first word isn't capitalised nor is there any full stop.
In the meantime, there's a punctuation exercise for you to do below.
Let's start with grammar, one of the key concepts underlying this MOOC.
It's quite usual for people to speak and write correctly without knowing the explicit rules of grammar. 
So, when you're studying grammar, you're studying what you may already know.
Categorising and labelling the words in a sentence using the parts of speech as traditional grammarians do isn't always reliable, however.
It's the arrangement and inter-relations among words in a sentence, the structure of the sentence.
Many creative writers testify that they don't know what they're thinking until they start writing about it.
We'd like you to create and maintain a writing journal that will allow you to practise writing, to experiment with different styles, and to develop a sourcebook of materials from which you can extract material to share with others as blog posts for your writing assignments.
We'd like you to keep a journal as you progress through this MOOC and you may well keep it going after the MOOC has finished.
We'll also ask you to contribute a blog post in weeks 4, 6, & 8.
Structure that's logical, coherent, cohesive, and focused.
Style that's energetic, compelling, and concise.
I've already talked about how crucial your writing quality will be to your success in your studies and in the workplace.
I'm now going to talk about how central your choice of words will be to your writing quality.
Then there's what's called the Cupertino error.
