Here are some example sentences.
'We went to the longest film ever made; finally, it was over.'
Some grammarians refer to this as 'The Royal Order of Adjectives'.
For example: 'An expensive old umbrella stand', where 'expensive' is an observation, 'old' is, of course, the age, and 'umbrella' qualifies the noun 'stand'.
In the sentence 'her long black silk gown', 'long' defines the shape, 'black' the colour, and 'silk' the material, of the noun 'gown'.
The phrase 'six small apples' requires no comma between 'six' and 'small'. 
In 'some sneaky and hungry goblins stole my food, 'some sneaky, hungry goblins stole my food', and 'some hungry, sneaky goblins stole my food', 'and' can be placed between 'sneaky' and 'hungry', and the sentence will mean the same thing in each case.
For example, you could write 'the wine-dark sea', and use a hyphen, but would describe the sea as 'wine dark'.
Finally, 'The Monty Python comedy school', which would otherwise take a hyphen, does not because 'Monty Python' is a proper noun.
Consider the phrase ' the eight- or nine-year-old boy', where 'year-old' is omitted in the first phrase.
In the sentence 'a large dog walked by', 'a', an article, is the determiner.
Consider the sentence 'how many chocolates did you eat?'.
Further examples are words like 'perfect', 'important', 'hot', and 'absent' in these examples.
Mark Twain addressed adjectives as follows: I notice that you use plain, simple language, short words and brief sentences.
Stick to it; don't let fluff and flowers  and verbosity creep in. 
Rather than 'the old lady', say 'the crone'; instead of 'the large, impressive building' say 'the edifice'.
The word pronoun is made up of 'pro', meaning 'on behalf of', and 'noun', which comes from the Latin word 'nomen'; to name. 
They include 'this', 'that', 'these', 'those', and 'such'.
Interrogative pronouns pose questions: 'Who' and 'whom' for persons; 'which', 'what', 'whose', and 'where' for other things.
For example, 'I don't know what they want'.
For example: 'Of all the films to have won Oscars in the last 50 years, none speaks to me as much as "Annie Hall"'.
Reflexive pronouns include 'myself', 'yourself', 'himself', 'herself', 'itself','ourselves', 'yourselves', and 'themselves'.
For example, 'I, myself, witnessed the meltdown.'
And, finally, the expletive pronouns: 'It' and 'there'. In grammar, the word expletive does not mean an oath or a swear word.
It would be much more direct to write: 'They intend to go to the concert.'
In the sentence, 'it is their intention to go to the concert,' we also then encounter a heavy noun or 'shun' word: 'Intention.'
There are three main tenses: Past, for things that have already happened; present, for things that are happening right now; and future, for things that have not yet taken place.
Some examples of the subjunctive mood include: 'If only it were so'; 'if I were you'; 'long live the Queen'.
Additionally, singular verbs lose their '-s' and '-es' endings.
An example would be: 'The magic was woven by the grammar goblins'.
Another example: 'It is felt that your proposal is not able to be funded'.
Another example of the double passive is this: 'Athletes who are found to have taken drugs will be dropped from the squad'.
The following are all fragments, which are undesirable in formal writing: While Sherlock waited.
A way to correct these sentences would be to write: Sherlock Holmes waited and Watson delayed his visit.
You should also learn to sidestep the following problems: 'and-ness', 'is-ness', 'of-ness', and list-like sentences.
For example: Our lack OF knowledge about local conditions precluded determination OF committee action effectiveness in fund allocation to those areas in greatest need OF assistance.
Here's Jesse Kornbluth quoting Isaac Babel: 'No iron can strike the heart with as much force as a period in exactly the right place'.
Prepositions of time can be 'on', 'at', 'in', 'during', or 'for'.
We use 'on' for specific days or dates, as in the sentence 'my birthday is on Wednesday'.
And finally, we use 'for' to describe a continuous duration, as in the sentence 'I studied for eighteen years'.
Prepositions of place can also be 'on', 'at', or 'in'.
Prepositions of movement include the words 'to', 'toward', or 'towards', such as in the sentences 'I went to the castle gates' and 'don't walk towards the light'.
For example, in the sentence 'my sister went outside', the preposition 'outside' functions as an adverb.
Take these examples: 'It is wise to listen to and learn from your lecturer',and 'would you like to swim in the pool or at the beach?'
Take, for example, the word 'knack', meaning the skill or ability to do something easily and well.
Ben Yagoda included the following example in his book that we listed in week one: 'What did you want to bring the book I didn't want to be read to out of up for?'
In the sentence 'I studied feverishly', the adverb 'feverishly' modifies the verb 'studied'.
And in the sentence 'I arrived just after it started', the adverb 'just' modifies the subordinating conjunction 'after'.
The entire phrase 'To the brink of madness' is modified by the adverb 'practically'.
Finally, in the sentence 'He speaks exceedingly well', the adverb 'exceedingly' modifies the adverb 'well'.
For example, take the sentence 'I have eyes only for you'.
Consider the sentence: 'I meditate blissfully in my garden every afternoon at 4pm to find inner peace'.
When it comes to 'me', 'myself', and 'I', the correct word to use depends on whether you're the subject or the object of a sentence.
In the sentence 'she gave the plans to the builder', 'she' is the subject, 'gave' is the verb, 'the plans' are the direct object, and 'the builder' is the indirect object.
In this sentence I am both the subject and the object.
Let's look at this sentence: 'The chef and her daughter were pleased with her progress'.
Finally, we come to the question of 'who' or 'whom'.
Some nouns have irregular plurals: child/children, mouse/mice.
Other nouns have no singular: auspices, clothes, cattle.
Take the example of 'room'-we may use it to say there is 'no room at the table' and also that there are 'no rooms at the inn'.
They can be singular or plural, depending on your intended meaning, for example 'the group were divided on that issue' BUT 'the group was unanimous on that issue'.
'Captain Pugwash is a fearless captain' shows 'captain' as both a common and proper noun.
In this instance, 'Sherlock Holmes' is the subject of our sentence (and is a proper noun). 
There are two common problems to watch out for in noun usage: noun strings and nominalisations(or heavy nouns).
For example: 'I am here in the studio so that I can record this week's introduction to verbs', where 'am' and 'can record' are verbs.
Another example is you are watching this video so that you can use verbs well in your writing.
Verbs are divided into two classes: finite and non-finite. 
Other examples include 'we remain committed to our cause' and 'you appear to have arrived'.
Parts of the verb 'to be', the verb 'to do', and the verb 'to have' are the primary auxiliary verbs.
Sometimes, you may want to use several adjectives in a sequence to describe the one thing.
It combines with 'read', the main verb, and indicates a suggestion or obligation.
Consider the sentence 'I made a cake.' 'Made' is a transitive verb because it takes on the direct object cake. 
He explains how both words are derived from the word for 'learning', as in 'grammar' schools.
Sometimes the subject role is implied or 'understood': Do your homework.
You'll find this table in your course reader.
The four functions are: Statement The cat sat on that mat.
Traditional grammar prescribes rules and follows what some people call the 'Doctrine of Mechanical Correctness.' 
A predicate MUST contain a finite verb that relates to, or 'agrees with', the subject.
However, 'That is the question' is a complete sentence because 'is' is a finite verb.
Exclamation: Wow! Look at that cat!
We use 'on' for specific days or dates, as in the sentence 'my birthday is on Wednesday'.
There are three kinds; 'coordinating', 'subordinating', and 'correlative' conjunctions.
There are seven coordinating conjunctons - 'for', 'and, 'nor', 'but', 'or', 'yet', and 'so'- which can be easily remembered using the nifty acronym 'fanboys'.
In the sentence 'Alfred is very bright, but he doesn't concentrate', the conjunction 'but' joins the two clauses together.
Consider these sentences: 'The day is lost unless we make up some time'; 'I can't help but sight whenever I think of summer'; and 'he waited outside until the show was over'. The conjunctions 'unless', 'whenever', and 'until' connect the dependent clause to the independent clause.
Take the example 'neither a borrower nor a lender be'.
In 'it doesn't matter whether you pass or fail', 'whether' and 'or' establish a relationship of possibility.
'At' is used for specific times: 'I have work at 9:30'.
For example, in the sentence 'my sister went outside', the preposition 'outside' functions as an adverb.
Now consider the sentences 'Heidi ran up a big hill' and 'Heidi ran up a big bill'.
Take these examples: 'It is wise to listen to and learn from your lecturer',and 'would you like to swim in the pool or at the beach?'