I'm not going to hit the sack.
I'm going to hit the sack.
I had thought the lesson to the children.
Hello, let's begins the today's lecture with a revision.
Hi, good morning, it was nice to hear from you anyways.
The scenario that I had explained earlier as, "The lazy brown dog jump over the fetch".
Good to see you back again, how was the previous session?
For an instance; I can say that present - ruling system is not fair.
GOSH, good, my career was same as always.
Personal pronoun is a special category of  pronouns for example : 'I', "We",'Them'.
Hello dude, what's up.
Hello, what's going on here?
This is the general format of the letter format you might wanna it in career that you need to deal with.
I feel to say very sorry for the incident that happened yesterday.
I put off the interview in to the next week.
It seems to be really hard for me.
Welcome to the next video.
Never mind, let's carry out the task together.
It completely slipped out of my mind.
When you see a challenge hang in there and continue.
Please give me a call as reminder if you really don't mind.
I'm completely fed up with this working stuff.
This is the end of today's session, see you next week.
However this is the last thing we can try.
However, make sure you have studied well before go in to the exam.
Good morning, we will meet at the conference hall sharp at 9.
We shall make the tour arrangements soon.
Saman will be visiting the lecturer tomorrow.
Let's go now, good day!
It's better to drop that topic off now.
That is beside the point that we are really focusing on.
We have to crossed the paths in couple of times in last year.
Good, my career was same as always.
So, all the students might get good grades in that subject.
We might join you late in the evening.
This is a just a simple explanation for the given scenario.
After the surgery he try to walk a little by little.
Always we need to keep our eyes on our kids when they play.
That guy fall in love with Neesha.
We declare the names of animals such as elephant, monkey, rabbit and bear.
I have beaten up by Nicholoas.
All of a sudden(in an instant) the rain has begun.
Hey everyone, let's start the practicals.
We can say that school era is turning point of child life such as ordinary level examination.
Personal pronoun is a special category as an example 'I', "We",'Them'.
Let me explain the scenario given below as this.
The scenario that I had explained earlier as "The lazy brown dog jump over the fetch".
I would like to continue this part in our next video.
It is raining season.
Undergraduates get experience of the projects prior to the industrial exposure through the industrial training.
People can engage in sports for them to enhance their health and body conditions.
Good to see you back again, how are you?
Which is your favorite subject?
Children are going to participate in the contest this year.
I am not practicing the piano.
You were coming there at the station by that time.
The police is not performing their responsibilities well.
Car is going in a very high speed.
Child is not going to participate in the contest this year.
I jumped in to the river.
Seetha went to the school.
They collected the donations for the charity.
Adjective explained the situation in details.
I did not play tennis.
She did not engage in any of the sports.
People did not listen to the speech.
We had made the promotion a success.
Mother has prepared the lunch.
Lecturers have canceled their lectures due to the strike.
We had not made the promotion a success.
I had not thought the lesson to the children.
Mother has not prepared the lunch.
Lecturers have not canceled their lectures due to the strike.





