The key sentence problems that you need to avoid are the sentence fragment, the fused or run-on sentence, and the comma splice.
A fragment can be a dependent clause, a subject without a predicate, a phrase, or even a single word.
You should avoid the problems just listed and try to write direct, dynamic sentences.
The mood of a verb can be declarative, imperative, interrogative, or subjunctive.
We now move on to the small, but mighty, pronoun.
This table shows English pronouns in both singular and plural forms.
There are various kinds of pronouns in English, from demonstrative through to distributive.
Relative pronouns relate to an antecedent-what has come before-and join that antecedent to a modifying clause.
They always take a singular verb.
It actually comes from the Latin, 'expletivus', which means 'to fill out'.
Sometimes, you need to use an expletive construction.
We looked at heavy nouns in the first lecture this week, so you might want to go back and check that section.
When you catch an adjective, kill it.
Sometimes, you may want to use several adjectives in a sequence to describe the one thing.
However, multiple adjectives in a sequence conform to a specific order.
Sometimes, a word might come first for emphasis, as in 'I want the silver antique tea pot, not the pewter one'.
When punctuating cumulative adjectives, put commas only between those of the same category.
Also, never put a comma after a determiner, or before the noun being described.
They take a hyphen when coming before a noun, and not when coming after.
Let's look at our final section on adverbs.
While coordinating and subordinating conjunctions connect words, phrases, and clauses, some adverbs can show the relation of ideas between main clauses.
They need to be punctuated in a particular way.
Next week, we move on to prepositions and paragraphs.
Let's start with grammar, one of the key concepts underlying this MOOC.
Another term that you need to be familiar with is syntax.
And if we do get it right, we'll please the few who know and care about these things, so everyone will be happy.
You need to understand the rules of grammar so that you know when it's OK to break them.
Wide reading, particularly of authors who write very well, will help you to absorb a great deal about grammatical, syntactical, and punctuation patterns and the craft of writing.
You need to use Standard English in academic, corporate, and government communication.
Now we'll move on to show you how to create credibility for your writing at the word level.
We'll also choose a few early posts that students in this MOOC write and post.
In this first week of the course, we want to introduce you to the concept of style at the word level with suggestions about how to use words well to enhance your writing.
Good grammar and coherent sentence structure are the foundation of effective writing, but you also need to choose words well.
I'm now going to talk about how central your choice of words will be to your writing quality. 
English is tricky.
We need now to cover some important concepts related to word usage, such as voice, tone, and style.
An independent (main, principal) clause can stand alone as a sentence.
A simple is made up of one independent clause.
A compound sentence is made up of two or more independent clauses joined by either a semicolon or a coordinating conjunction such as for, and, nor, but, or, yet, or so.
After this lecture, we have a drag-and-drop exercise where we'll ask you to place auxiliary verbs into their correct slots.
Participles can be either present or past tense, and require the addition of a helping verb to make a verb phrase.
The present participle always ends in '-ing', such as in the sentence 'I am riding north tonight'.
In English, the infinitive is two words, and so can be freely split, as in 'to boldly go', or 'to gradually disperse'.
This week we are going to talk about nouns and pronouns, and help you to avoid the problems caused by not understanding how they function in writing.
Now let's move on to noun cases.
In other words, it tells the reader what to expect.
Some students learn that a paragraph must contain a certain number of sentences, but this is not a genuine or helpful rule. 
Just as you may need to break up a long sentence to prevent over-reading, you may have to break up a paragraph so that the page will not seem over-crowded.
Paragraph breaks give your reader time to pause.
They'll see what you are saying as they read.
