See Learn More, where two recent articles list these rules and tell you when it's OK to break them.
Remember, commas don't join; they cut!
When a comma is used in front of one of these conjunctions to introduce an independent clause, these conjunctions are called by the mnemonic the COMMA FANBOYS.
Avoid 'and-ness'-constructing long sentences by stringing too many clauses together with 'and'.
We certainly don't follow the Latin-based, old-fashioned advice that forbids splitting an infinitive verb 'to boldly go' or, ending a sentence with a preposition ('I have nobody to go with').
Here's a sentence that uses all the parts of speech in their traditional function, that is, doing their usual job.
There's a table listing the parts of speech in these two categories in the course resources section for those of you who are also learning linguistics.
Avoid listlike sentences.
We'll cover all of these as we move through the course.
Let's now move on to the sentence.
You'll have a chance later to look more closely at this sentence and have a go at rewriting it more effectively.
We'll look at the tense of verbs next week, but the following table will help you to see the parts of the verb 'to be' in present and past tense.
Next week,we'll look at verbs, the part of speech that Karen Elizabeth Gordon, who wrote the transitive vampire grammar books, calls 'the heartthrob' of the sentence.
Often in English we'll come across a noun that has kept its Latin-based plural, like criterion/criteria, phenomenon/phenomena.
Avoid 'is-ness'-relying on parts of the 'weak' verb 'to be'.
While Watson moved the lamp, Sherlock Holmes waited.
Fish advises writing students to practise composing sentences and then explain what you have done.
Yet another way to categorise sentences is into loose and periodic forms.
Avoid 'OF-ness'-this occurs when the word 'of' is used too frequently.
Consider the sentence 'I made a cake.'
Let's move now on to other kinds of verbs.
And sometimes we'll find nouns that have BOTH English and Latin plurals.
A sentence that lacks a subject or a finite verb is a fragment.
Sherlock Holmes waited and Watson delayed his visit.
You should avoid the problems just listed and try to write direct, dynamic sentences.
You'll discover that some nouns are plural in form, but singular in meaning and therefore take a singular verb.
To conclude this section, here's a table to introduce subjects, predicates, and objects, which we'll cover next week when we look at verbs.
I don't know about you, but I thought that sentence was never going to end!
When you've finished watching this video, have a go at rewriting our example sentences using the text boxes provided.
Intransitive verbs don't require an object to complete their meaning.
You'll often find that pronoun problems like this have a 'knock-on' effect, resulting in other sentence problems.
This week we'll be looking at adjectives.
In this week's second lecture, we'll be covering adjectival sequencing, punctuation, and determiners.
Verbs should do most of the work in a sentence.
Finite verbs can be joined by linking verbs and helping verbs.
Linking, or copular, verbs link a subject with a complement that describes or explains it, restates the subject, or describes its state of being. 
While they require a direct object to complete their meaning, they can also relate to an indirect object.
In fact, he's called us in a few times to take care of details that were overlooked in the last weeks of work.
It's always wise to check your context when deciding which to use.
Here's a sample of some nominalisations with suggested replacements.
Here's a quote from a Colin Dexter novel, where reflexive pronouns do some heavy lifting.
Take 'let's turn on the light', or 'I'll climb up that tree' as examples, where the words 'turn on' and 'climb up' are phrasal verbs.
Remember, verbs form the core of the sentence, usually doing most of its work.
Let's now look at the tense, mood, and voice of verbs.
Voice is the property of a verb that tells whether the subject acts or is acted upon.
The impersonal passive is very common in the corporate world.
Passive voice can also be used to avoid taking direct responsibility for something.
Nouns can be either singular or plural.
Let's take a look at some other examples.
Also, check whether what you think is a passive verb can be converted straightforwardly into the active voice.
Do not make passive voice your default.
Try to use active verbs as much as you can in your writing.
No, I don't mean utterly, but kill most of them-then the rest will be valuable.
That's it for adjectives.
To put it another way, they’re like dandelions.
Here's a table of some subordinating conjunctions.
There are quite a few here, and many more that aren't listed.
Now we're going to talk about Adverbs.
That's it for adverbs and conjunctions.
Sometimes we don't need to use prepositions to indicate movement.
Again, we rely on context to convey meaning.
In this lecture we'll cover conjunctions that function to connect clauses.
Next week, we'll move on to adverbs.
In it, Ros will cover punctuation.
This will make it easier for them to organise their thoughts as they read.
Forty percent of eligible voters ARE expected to turn out.
Collective nouns are used for references to gatherings of entities.
Nouns can be concrete or abstract.
Proper nouns always take a capital letter.
More often than not, the 'heavy' noun can be replaced by a verb.
Reflexive pronouns are used when the subject of the verb is also its object.
Pronouns can be tricky.
On a final note, let's have a look at another example.
That's it for prepositions.
Now we're going to look at paragraphs, and some of the ways that you can make your writing better by understanding how they work.
They'll see what you are saying as they read.
It's helpful to give information first in broad terms, and to become more specific and offer greater detail as you move through the paragraph.
You will need to use transitional expressions to move between the various parts.
Following this lecture, we'll ask you to read our example of a cohesive, coherent paragraph on plain language and identify as many cohesive ties-the words that act as glue-as you can.
Now let's move on to noun cases.
Take this example: Sherlock Holmes, the detective, tapped his pipe.
Let's move onto pronouns with Amber.
Adjectives exist to answer questions.
Here are some common examples of adjectives and their various degrees of comparison.
No adjectival description is necessary.
James has more on adjectives for you in the second lecture of this week.
In this last week of the course, I'll cover all the 'extant' punctuation marks-that is, those that we still use-and point you to some course resources that describe 'extinct' punctuation marks, along with punctuation marks that some people would love to see come into regular use.
Writing isn't merely written down speaking.
When we're apart, I can be forever happy.
They're placed after an introductory sentence element.
He says that it's commonly used by other publishers in the UK and forms a routine part of style in US and Canadian English.
Unfortunately, Stephen King doesn't seem to know what it is.
Like adjectives, adverbs in English can be 'marked' to indicate degree.
All intensifiers are adverbs.
First, what is a pronoun?
Remember to use a singular or plural verb, as appropriate.
Again, these include 'myself', 'yourself', 'himself', 'herself', 'itself', 'ourselves', 'yourselves', and 'themselves'.
Avoid the expletive in a sentence such as 'it is their intention to go to the concert', because this postpones the message.
Let's look at the parts of a sentence.
The only time that you'll need to insert punctuation that mirrors spoken communication is when you write speeches for administrators and politicians.
I'll cover some of these in this lecture, and the remaining ones in the next lecture.
which you'll find listed in your course resources, she asked him 'Oxford comma? Yea or nay?'
We'll consider this in the second lecture this week.
The position of adverbs can completely alter the meaning of a sentence.
Adverbs are arranged in order of manner, place, frequency, time, and purpose.
You should be careful when using adverbs, as they are well known for their ability to weaken writing.
Stephen King had this to say about adverbs in his book On Writing, a Memoir of the Craft.
One final piece of advice is this: avoid weasel words.
Conjunctions are joiners that connect the parts of a sentence.
I'll cover the remaining punctuation marks in the next lecture.
you will find the video clip in our course resources.
When you study what the language can and can't do, you're studying grammar.
Use 'I' when you are the subject of the sentence, even if you are referring to someone else as well as yourself.
Use 'me' when you are the direct or indirect object of your sentence.
You should use 'myself' only emphatically or reflexively.
Let's look at this sentence.
Let's have a look at some examples.
Let's look at the sentence 'She is bright', in which 'bright' is a positive form.
Consider the sentence 'how many chocolates did you eat?'
Let's look at some more examples.
Coordinating conjunctions connect independent clauses.
A preposition is a word that establishes a relationship, usually with the word following it.
A prepositional phrase is a phrase that begins with a preposition and is followed by a noun or pronoun.
As you can see, the relationship of a preposition depends upon its context in a sentence.
Churchill was an accomplished writer.
What does the word 'grammar' mean to you?
You'll benefit greatly from a grounding in grammar.
Once you graduate you'll learn that the workplace requires Standard English, the language of prestige and power in much of the world.
You'll exponentially enhance your employment prospects if you write well.
We'll also choose a few early posts that students in this MOOC write and post. 
The topic sentence is followed by the body  of the paragraph.
The body develops or discusses what the topic sentence has stated.
Clear structure can help to clarify the meaning of our writing.
Mark Twain once sent his publisher a page of punctuation for his editor to insert where needed.
We'll comment on and grade them as guidance for self and peer assessing and post these mark-ups on the discussion board as soon as possible after the posts are due.
You'll find all of the assessment details, including details of the rubric, in your course assessment folder.
Do you agree with Dot Wordsworth's comment that 'It's cruel not to teach grammar to children'?
This is what the novelist E. M. Forster had to say: 'How do I know what I think until I've seen what I've said?'
In what ways is writing like running or cooking or dancing or boxing or painting or any other activity that you can think of?
Consider the sentence: 'I meditate blissfully in my garden every afternoon at 4pm to find inner peace'.
Consider these sentences: 'The day is lost unless we make up some time'; 'I can't help but sight whenever I think of summer'; and 'he waited outside until the show was over'.
Let's look at our final section on adverbs.
Now we'll move on to show you how to create credibility for your writing at the word level.
The word 'comma' comes from the Greek word for a cut or segment.
Knowing grammar can make you into a truly great writer.
It was coined 20 years ago in New Orleans.
we'll ask you to put one of your favourite words into our word cloud.
You'll be able see the favourite words of the people doing this MOOC.
We'll concentrate on words this week and deal with sentences and paragraphs in later weeks.
You will notice all of these words end in'ough', but are pronounced differently.
You'll find loads of extra information on words in the course resources.
Consider the sentence 'we found plenty of errors'.
How word-aware are you?
Do you have any favourite words?
What are some of your favourite words?
Do you have any pet-peeve words and expressions?
What sort of person does my reader think I am as they read my words?
How would you describe your voice in any writing that you have done?
Next week, we'll move up a level to sentences, which will be covered by Amber and Catherine.
Is your voice breezy, reassuring, sincere, humble, opinionated, knowledgeable, funny, minimal, bemused, wry, poetic, dramatic, idiosyncratic?
How did the purpose of your writing affect the voice that you were aiming for?
Do you visualise your reader when you write?
Now consider the sentences 'Heidi ran up a big hill' and 'Heidi ran up a big bill'.
Remember that they are two- or three-word verbs that incorporate a main verb and a preposition.
You must always be sure to use the correct preposition.
Use your topic sentence to let your reader know in brief what you are going to say.
Try to find examples of cohesive and coherent paragraphs to guide your own writing.
Clear structure can help to clarify the meaning of our writing.
'Remember to check your grammar, spelling, and punctuation'.
Do you think that your readers feel informed, pleased, motivated, bored, patronised, intimidated, or irritated by your writing when they read your messages?
What if JFK had said in his inaugural address:'Ask not what your country can, you know, do for you, but what you can, like, do for your country, actually'?
Can you see why this is a loose sentence?
Can you see why this is a periodic sentence?
Can you see that two sentences are fused here?
Can you see that a comma is used to join or splice two sentences?
You must have at least three items to use the Oxford comma.
Be careful not to misuse commas, although you might get a free beer, as I did, if someone compiling a menu puts a comma in the wrong place.
Take care never to use more than one, or one pair, of em dashes in a sentence.
Consider this first example.
Remember, punctuation should be there quietly doing its job, and be visible only to those who are looking for it. 
Make sure that every punctuation mark you use conveys a signal to your reader to slow down, to stop, et cetera.
Could you rewrite this sentence by eliminating the 'and's'?
Could you do better?
Or, how about some Shakespeare?
What verbs could replace 'is' to make these sentences stronger?
'Do you know if Signor La Capra is living in the palazzo now?' 'Yes, he is.
Do you remember the sentence that exemplified of-ness at the end of week 2?
Is it clear whether we are referring to the progress of the chef, or her daughter?
You must make certain that you are knowledgeable and consistent in your use of punctuation.
Find a piece of writing that you admire and try to analyse why it works for you.
Be careful about using humour because it may offend readers who don't share your sense of humour.
Can you see why it's important for a pronoun to agree with its antecedent?
Can you see how much fun it would have been to compose this sentence?
How many prepositions does it end with?
Will you let me be yours? Gloria'.
Is this a 'Dear John letter'?
Will you let me be? Yours, Gloria'.
Can you see why you need a comma after 'fun'? 
How much do you appreciate
How your handling of words
Can help you to produce clear
What'comes through' about you through your writing.
